Documentation restructuring project (#5463)
nteract/nteract: docs/notes/components-group.md

```jsx
import NotebookApp from "@nteract/notebook-app-component";

<NotebookApp
  // The desktop app always keeps the same contentRef in a
  // browser window
  contentRef={contentRef}
/>
```

## /presentational-components
This package contains React components for rendering inputs, outputs, cells, and other key UI elements within nteract applications.

### Installation

```
$ yarn add @nteract/presentational-components
```

```
$ npm install --save @nteract/presentational-components
```

### Usage

The Redux reducer below shows how we can leverage the components within this package to display a cell with an input and output.

```javascript
import {
  Cell,
  Input,
  Prompt,
  Source,
  Outputs
} from "@nteract/presentational-components";

export default () => {
  return (
    <Cell isSelected>
      <Input>
        <Prompt counter={2} />
        <Source language="python">{`print("Hello World")`}</Source>
      </Input>
      <Outputs>
        <pre>Hello World</pre>
      </Outputs>
    </Cell>
  );
};
```

> ## /stateful-components

Reviewer: It makes sense to talk about stateful components before we talk about presentational components.

Author: I noted that for when I do the components group next!

### Example

This component is complex. It requires you to setup the Redux store used by the other nteract apps. Review desktop or Jupyter extensions for examples.

**Example:**

```jsx
import NotebookApp from "@nteract/notebook-app-component";

<NotebookApp
  // The desktop app always keeps the same contentRef in a
  // browser window
  contentRef={contentRef}
/>
```

## /presentational-components

This package contains React components for rendering inputs, outputs, cells, and other key UI elements within nteract applications.

### Example

The Redux reducer below shows how to leverage components within this package to display a cell with an input and output.

**Example:**

```javascript
import {
  Cell,
  Input,
  Prompt,
  Source,
  Outputs
} from "@nteract/presentational-components";

export default () => {
  return (
    <Cell isSelected>
      <Input>
        <Prompt counter={2} />
        <Source language="python">{`print("Hello World")`}</Source>
      </Input>
      <Outputs>
        <pre>Hello World</pre>
      </Outputs>
    </Cell>
  );
};
```

> ## /styles

Reviewer: We can describe this as a collection of basic CSS styles that can be helpful in bootstrapping the UI of the page. Following that, we can include a list of each of the *.css files in this package and a sentence description of what they do.

> ## /styles

Author: Sounds good! I'll get more information for the sentences later on. Thanks!

These connected components are designed to work with the Redux state model that the nteract core SDK uses. In short, it expects that certain properties are stored in particular locations within the Redux subtree.

**Example:**
To use the connected components, import each of the components from the `@nteract/stateful-components` package as needed.

In the example below, the connected `CodeCell` component expects to receive a `contentRef` and an `id`. The `conntetRef` is a unique ID to refer to the model of a particular notebook in the nteract core Redux state. The `id` is the cell ID that references the cell as it is stored in the nteract core Redux state.

```
import { CodeCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class MyApp extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <CodeCell contentRef={contentRef} id={cellId}>;
    }
}
```

All the connected components expect either a `contentRef` or a `id`. These two pieces of information  resolve the correct data from the Redux state and pass it to the component.

> ### Extending notebook UI

Reviewer 2: I love having these types of docs sections in projects!

This suite of React components provides several points of extensibility for the UI.

#### Extending Editors

> nteract ships with the CodeMirror editor in its desktop and Jupyter extensions. However, alternative editors are available for use in your own notebook based UI. 

Reviewer 2: I believe we now ship with CodeMirror and Monaco as option right @captainsafia ?

Reviewer: Yes, we ship with both CodeMirror and Monaco now.

**Example:**
To add your own set of cells, override the children of the `Cells` component and render your own custom `Cell` components for each cell_type. To override the default `MarkdownCell`, see the following code.

```js
import { Cells, CodeCell, RawCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class MarkdownCell extends React.Component {
  static defaultProps = {
    cell_type: "markdown"
  };

  render() {
    return <p>{this.props.value}</p>;
  }
}

class MyCells extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Cells>
        {{
          markdown: <MarkdownCell id={cellId} contentRef={contentRef} />,
          code: <CodeCell id={cellId} contentRef={contentRef} />,
          raw: <RawCell id={cellId} contentRef={contentRef} />
        }}
      </Cells>
    );
  }
}
```

This pattern is similar to creating configurable editors. Configurable cells require a `cell_type` prop on the child component that matches the intended rendering `cell_type` from the component.

#### Name-slot based child composition patterns

The "Extending Cells" pattern provides a strategy for overriding the entire default implementation for cells exported by nteract. 

**Example:**

> To override particular components only, the @nteract/stateful-components package supports  name slot-based component overrides. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To override particular components only, the @nteract/stateful-components package supports name slot-based component overrides.
```

**Example:**
Create a React component and override the `editor` child property in the `MarkdownCell` component.

```js
import Notebook, { MarkdownCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class Editors extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <MyMarkdownRenderer />;
  }
}

class MyNotebook extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Notebook>
        {{
          markdown: (
            <MarkdownCell>
              {{
                editor: <Editor />
              }}
            </MarkdownCell>
          )
        }}
      </Notebook>
    );
  }
}
```

#### How to override the Output display in code cells

**Example:**
Create a React component and override the `outputs` property in the `CodeCell` component.

```js
import Notebook, { CodeCell } from "@nteract/stateful-component";

class Outputs extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>No outputs for you!</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

class MyNotebook extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Notebook>
        {{ code: <CodeCell>{{ outputs: <Outputs /> }}</CodeCell> }}
      </Notebook>
    );
  }
}
```

## /notebook-app-component

> A monolithic notebook app, in a component

Reviewer 2: Probably could more information here about what this means for someone not as familiar

Author: Agreed. I took content from the README files in all of the epics as placeholders for improvement. As I don't know much of how they work at the moment, these bits serve as a guide.

Reviewer: If it helps, here's my brain dump on what this package is.

The notebook-app-component is a standardized implementation of a Jupyter notebook UI. It contains a single component that renders a "typical" notebook UI with an code cells, markdown cells, cell prompts, and outputs on code cells. It's designed as a quick and dirty baseline implementation of the UI that users can use to bootstrap their app. Developers can also use this a sample implementation that they can extend upon.

### Installation
```
npm install --save @nteract/notebook-app-component
```

### Usage

This component is complex. It requires you to setup the redux store used by the other nteract apps. Review desktop or Jupyter extensions for examples.

```jsx
import NotebookApp from "@nteract/notebook-app-component";

<NotebookApp
  // The desktop app always keeps the same contentRef in a
  // browser window
  contentRef={contentRef}
/>
```

> ## /presentational-components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## /presentational-components

```

# Components

**Table of contents**
- [/stateful-components](#/stateful-components)
  - [Using /stateful-components](#Using-/stateful-components)
  - [Extending notebook UI](#Extending-notebook-UI)
  - [Styling UIs](#Styling-UIs)
  - [Examples](#Examples-of-/stateful-components)
- [/notebook-app-component](#/notebook-app-component)
- [/presentational-components](#/presentation-components)
- [/styles](#/styles)

## /stateful-components

The @nteract/stateful-components package exports a set of React components that are connected to the Redux and an unconnected set of components.

### Using /stateful-components

If you're building a notebook-based application using the nteract core SDK, you can use the connected components to render different components within a notebook, such as Cells and Outputs using the data that is stored in the Redux store.

These connected components are designed to work with the Redux state model that the nteract core SDK uses. In short, it expects that certain properties are stored in particular locations within the Redux subtree.

**Example:**

> To use the connected components, import each of the components from the `@nteract/stateful-components` package as needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

To use the connected components, import each of the components from the `@nteract/stateful-components` package as needed.
```

> In the example below, the connected `CodeCell` component expects to receive a `contentRef` and an `id`. The `conntetRef` is a unique ID to refer to the model of a particular notebook in the nteract core Redux state. The `id` is the cell ID that references the cell as it is stored in the nteract core Redux state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the example below, the connected `CodeCell` component expects to receive a `contentRef` and an `id`. The `contentRef` is a unique ID to refer to the model of a particular notebook in the nteract core Redux state. The `id` is the cell ID that references the cell as it is stored in the nteract core Redux state.
```

```js
import { CodeCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class MyApp extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <CodeCell contentRef={contentRef} id={cellId}>;
    }
}
```

All the connected components expect either a `contentRef` or a `id`. These two pieces of information resolve the correct data from the Redux state and pass it to the component.

### Extending notebook UI

This suite of React components provides several points of extensibility for the UI.

#### Extending Editors

> nteract ships with the CodeMirror and Monaco editors in its desktop and Jupyter extensions. However, alternative editors are available for use in your own notebook based UI. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nteract ships with the CodeMirror and Monaco editors in its desktop app and Jupyter extensions. However, alternative editors are available for use in your own notebook based UI. 
```

> **Example:**

Reviewer 3: It would be great to have this as an actual markdown section: Add a new editor

**Example:**
To add your own set of cells, override the children of the `Cells` component and render your own custom `Cell` components for each cell_type. To override the default `MarkdownCell`, see the following code.

```js
import { Cells, CodeCell, RawCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class MarkdownCell extends React.Component {
  static defaultProps = {
    cell_type: "markdown"
  };

  render() {
    return <p>{this.props.value}</p>;
  }
}

class MyCells extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Cells>
        {{
          markdown: <MarkdownCell id={cellId} contentRef={contentRef} />,
          code: <CodeCell id={cellId} contentRef={contentRef} />,
          raw: <RawCell id={cellId} contentRef={contentRef} />
        }}
      </Cells>
    );
  }
}
```

This pattern is similar to creating configurable editors. Configurable cells require a `cell_type` prop on the child component that matches the intended rendering `cell_type` from the component.

#### Name-slot based child composition patterns

The "Extending Cells" pattern provides a strategy for overriding the entire default implementation for cells exported by nteract.

> **Example:**

Reviewer 3: Not sure if you wanted this to be before the content or on its own line?

To override just the `Prompt` component within a CodeCell, define your own `Prompt` component. The code below is an example of this process.

```js
class MyPrompt extends React.Component {
  static displayName = "Prompt";

  render() {
    return <p>Your custom prompt here</p>;
  }
}
```

Pass the `Prompt` component as a named child to the nteract exported `CodeCell` component.

```js
import { CodeCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class MyCodeCell extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <CodeCell>
            {{ prompt: <Prompt> }}
        </CodeCell>;
    }
}
```

The following table of parent and child components show currently enabled overrides.

| Parent Component | Child Component |
| ---------------- | --------------- |
| CodeCell         | pagers          |
| CodeCell         | prompt          |
| CodeCell         | outputs         |
| CodeCell         | editor          |
| CodeCell         | inputPrompts    |
| MarkdownCell     | editor          |
| RawCell          | editor          |

### Styling UIs

> NOTE: Styling support for @nteract/stateful-component is in-progress.

> In nteract, stateful components are unstyled by default. This helps for you to configure your experience to your own preferences.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In nteract, stateful components are unstyled by default. This gives you the ability to configure your UI experience to your own preferences.
```

**Example:**
Create a React component and override the `editor` child property in the `MarkdownCell` component.

```js
import Notebook, { MarkdownCell } from "@nteract/stateful-components";

class Editors extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <MyMarkdownRenderer />;
  }
}

class MyNotebook extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Notebook>
        {{
          markdown: (
            <MarkdownCell>
              {{
                editor: <Editor />
              }}
            </MarkdownCell>
          )
        }}
      </Notebook>
    );
  }
}
```

#### How to override the Output display in code cells

**Example:**
Create a React component and override the `outputs` property in the `CodeCell` component.

```js
import Notebook, { CodeCell } from "@nteract/stateful-component";

class Outputs extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h1>No outputs for you!</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
}

class MyNotebook extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Notebook>
        {{ code: <CodeCell>{{ outputs: <Outputs /> }}</CodeCell> }}
      </Notebook>
    );
  }
}
```

## /notebook-app-component

> The notebook-app-component is a standardaized implementation of a Jupyter notebook UI. In it is a single component. That component renders a notebook UI with code cells, Markdown cells, cell prompts, and code cell outputs. This UI implementation helps to streamline apps. This sample implementation also helps developers extend their work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `notebook-app-component` standardizes the implementation of a Jupyter notebook UI. This single-purpose component renders a notebook UI with code cells, Markdown cells, cell prompts, and code cell outputs. This UI implementation helps to streamline apps. This sample implementation also helps developers extend their work.
```

### Example

> This component is complex. It requires you to setup the Redux store used by the other nteract apps. Review desktop or Jupyter extensions for examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This complex component requires you to set up the Redux store used by the other nteract apps. Review desktop or Jupyter extensions implementations as examples.
```

**Example:**

```jsx
import NotebookApp from "@nteract/notebook-app-component";

<NotebookApp
  // The desktop app always keeps the same contentRef in a
  // browser window
  contentRef={contentRef}
/>
```

## /presentational-components

This package contains React components for rendering inputs, outputs, cells, and other key UI elements within nteract applications.

### Example

The Redux reducer below shows how to leverage components within this package to display a cell with an input and output.

**Example:**

```javascript
import {
  Cell,
  Input,
  Prompt,
  Source,
  Outputs
} from "@nteract/presentational-components";

export default () => {
  return (
    <Cell isSelected>
      <Input>
        <Prompt counter={2} />
        <Source language="python">{`print("Hello World")`}</Source>
      </Input>
      <Outputs>
        <pre>Hello World</pre>
      </Outputs>
    </Cell>
  );
};
```

## /styles

The /styles package is a collection of basic CSS styles. These are helpful for bootstrapping the UI of the page. The following table contains each of the .CSS files within the package.

> | .CSS file | Description |

Author: Reminder to myself for adding descriptions for the CSS files in this table.
